[EDU-6432] Edge AI reference (#1624)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/main-menu/reference/edge-ai/ai-models/gemma-3.mdx

---

> title: Gemma3
> description: >-
>   Gemma3 is a model designed for fast deployment on devices, offering advanced capabilities such as multilingual support, text and visual reasoning, expanded context windows, function calling, and quantized models for high performance.

Author: ```suggestion
title: Gemma 3
description: >-
  Gemma 3 is a model designed for fast deployment on devices, offering advanced capabilities such as multilingual support, text and visual reasoning, expanded context windows, function calling, and quantized models for high performance.
```

meta_tags: 'edge ai, ai models, artificial intelligence, edge computing, gemma3'
namespace: docs_edge_ai_models_gemma_3
permalink: /documentation/products/ai/edge-ai/models/gemma-3/
---

> Gemma 3 is a model designed for fast deployment on devices, offering advanced capabilities such as multilingual support, text and visual reasoning, expanded context windows, function calling, and quantized models for high performance.

Author: ```suggestion
**Gemma 3** is a model designed for fast deployment on devices, offering advanced capabilities such as multilingual support, text and visual reasoning, expanded context windows, function calling, and quantized models for high performance.
```

## Model details

| Category | Details |
|----------|---------|
| **Model Name** | Gemma3 |
| **Version** | 27B INT4 |
| **Model Category** | LLM |
| **Size** | 27B parameters |
| **HuggingFace Model** | [ISTA-DASLab/gemma-3-27b-it-GPTQ-4b-128g](https://huggingface.co/ISTA-DASLab/gemma-3-27b-it-GPTQ-4b-128g) |
| **OpenAI Compatible endpoint** | [Chat Completions](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat/create) |
| **License** | [Gemma](https://ai.google.dev/gemma/terms) |

## Capabilities 

| Feature | Status |
|---------|--------|
| Tool Calling | ❌ |
| Azion Long-term Support (LTS) | ✅ |
| Context Length | 128k |
| Supports LoRA | ✅ |

> | Input data | Text + Image |

Reviewer: Acima tu deixou TEXT + IMAGE. Padronizar
